V1.0.0 RC (#182)
OWASP/maswe: weaknesses/MASVS-NETWORK/MASWE-0027.md

Author: Sven: DONE

---
title: Insecure Identity Pinning
id: MASWE-0027
alias: insecure-pinning
requirement: "The app correctly implements identity pinning."
platform: [android, ios]
profiles: [L2]
threat: MAS-THREAT-0027
attacks: [MAS-ATTACK-0014, MAS-ATTACK-0016, MAS-ATTACK-0017]
mappings:
  masvs-v1: [MSTG-NETWORK-4]
  masvs-v2: [MASVS-NETWORK-2]
  cwe: [295]
  android-core-app-quality: [Network_Security_Configuration]
  maswe-beta: [MASWE-0047]
refs:
- https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-config#CertificatePinning
- https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=g9ejcf8y
- https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Pinning_Cheat_Sheet.html
status: new
---

## Overview

This weakness occurs when identity pinning (also known as certificate pinning, public key pinning, or TLS pinning) is not implemented, or is implemented incorrectly, so the app cannot guarantee that it only communicates with servers presenting a specific, pre-determined cryptographic identity.

> Identity pinning associates a mobile app with a specific certificate or public key, adding a layer of trust verification on top of standard certificate validation. This reduces the risk of unauthorized interception even if a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) is compromised. Without it, the app trusts any certificate that chains to any CA in the trust store, so a single compromised or coerced CA is enough to intercept its traffic.

Reviewer: The phrase "so a single compromised or coerced CA is enough to intercept its traffic" reads like that it's an easy thing to do.

```suggestion
Identity pinning associates a mobile app with a specific certificate or public key, adding a layer of trust verification on top of standard certificate validation. This reduces the risk of unauthorized interception even if a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) is compromised. Compromise of a public CA is rare, but pinning narrows trust to identities the app operator controls, and raises the effort required to intercept, inspect, or replay the app's traffic.
```

Pinning is not foolproof: attackers who can reverse-engineer the app may remove or modify the pre-defined pins or the pinning logic, and attackers using runtime hooking and dynamic instrumentation may bypass the pinning checks on a device they control. This highlights the importance of implementing pinning **alongside other security measures** to enhance the app's resistance to advanced threats.

## Modes of Introduction

> - **Improper Configuration of Pinning Libraries**: Misconfiguring libraries like TrustKit, OkHttp's `CertificatePinner`, Volley, or AFNetworking's `SSLPinningMode`, leading to ineffective pinning.

Reviewer: AFNetworking is deprecated for a few years now. Volley also didn't get any updates since last year. 

```suggestion
- **Improper Configuration of Pinning Libraries**: Misconfiguring libraries like TrustKit or OkHttp's `CertificatePinner` leading to ineffective pinning.
```
